Procedure
https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Cloud-Director/10.0/com.vmware.vcloud.install.doc/GUID-A4489E87-0107-4CBF-98BC-01BDF5C4DDEE.html


1- assessment and audit on the current infra (check overall health of the SDDC, test user accounts, permissions);

2- collect the necessary information and document details for deployment planning (management subnets, storage, etc)

3- Deploy and configure the NSX-T Manager;

4- Create transport zones based on the networking requirements.

5- Deploy and configure Edge nodes and an Edge cluster.

6- Configure the ESXi host transport nodes.

7- Create a tier-0 gateway.


After you install vCloud Director, you can:

Register the NSX-T Manager instance with your cloud.
           --see the vCloud Director Service Provider Admin Portal Guide.

Create a network pool backed by an NSX-T Data Center transport zone.
           --see the vCloud Director Service Provider Admin Portal Guide.

Import the tier-0 gateway as an external network.
           --see the vCloud Director Service Provider Admin Portal Guide.

-----------------
IP Planning:

?? One VLAN with IPv4 unicast for vSAN traffic
One VLAN for vSphere vMotion
One VLAN for NSX-T Host Overlay network
One VLAN for the first NSX-T edge uplink (for NSX-T edge services)
One VLAN for the second NSX-T edge uplink (for NSX-T edge services)
One VLAN for the NSX-T edge overlay network (for NSX-T edge services)

Determine default gateway and subnet mask.
Reserve one IP address for vCenter Server.
Decide whether you want to use the default TCP-IP stack for vMotion, or a separate IP addressing scheme for the dedicated vMotion TCP-IP stack.
Reserve four or more IP addresses and a subnet mask for vSphere vMotion.
Select the gateway for either the default TCP-IP stack, or the dedicated vMotion TCP-IP stack.
Reserve four or more IP addresses and a subnet mask for vSAN.
Reserve IP addresses for NSX-T Management VIP and appliance nodes.
Reserve IP addresses for the first NSX-T edge uplink (for NSX-T edge services).
Reserve IP addresses for the second NSX-T edge uplink (for NSX-T edge services).
Reserve IP addresses for the NSX-T edge overlay network (for NSX-T edge services).
Reserve IP addresses for the NSX-T host overlay network (unless using DHCP).

If witness is required for stretched cluster, reserve one IP address for the management network and one IP address for the vSAN network.
If NSX-T Federation is a requirement, reserve IP addresses for the remote TEPs on the edge gateways in each region.

Prepare DHCP
Configure IP address scope for NSX-T host overlay network (unless using static IP addresses).

Prepare Leaf Switches

Configure at least 1600 MTU (9000 preferred).
Configure the required VLANs on the top-of-rack switches.

Configure Layer 3 settings on NSX-T host overlay network.
Configure Layer 3 settings on NSX-T edge overlay network (for NSX-T edge services).
?? Configure unicast on the vSAN network.
?? Configure Spanning Tree on the switch ports supporting VxRail nodes as edge ports, or in ‘portfast’ mode.
?? Configure inter-switch links on switches below the Layer 2/3 boundary.

Prepare Routing Services

Configure Border Gateway Protocol at the Layer 2/3 network boundary.
Configure BGP peering with NSX-T Tier-0 Gateway (for NSX-T edge services)

